However, we need to discuss CloudFormation,
what it is before we even attempt to run something,
because we don't want to be running something that we don't understand.
This is the part where we start talking about infrastructure as code by itself.
When it comes to CloudFormation,
CloudFormation is a declarative language, what that means is,
you declare the resources that you want and you
allow the logic behind it to take care of everything.
I'll give you an example. If you create a server,
it's not your responsibility to tell Amazon,
does this server already exists?
Is this an update?
Are we creating it from scratch?
Those things, that will be
a programmer's type of logic and we don't need you to become a software developer.
If you are an operational person,
you don't need to understand any of that logic,
you can just use this and let Amazon worry about that.
The same goes for interdependencies.
So let's say you have a network that you're creating,
an infrastructure and you're also creating a server,
the first thing that comes to mind,
how is it Amazon going to know,
should I create the network first and then deploy a server second on top of that network,
or should it be the other way around?
Well, again, that's none of your concern,
they have their own server [inaudible] that does all
this for you so you don't really have to worry about any of that,
you just declare your resources.
There are very rare exceptions when you actually have
to specify dependencies, for example,
let's say that you are creating a load balancer or
a web server and this load balancer needs to wait for the web server to be ready,
then you can specify a situation where you would say,
this resource that I'm creating depends on that other resource,
so please wait until the other resource is created before continuing.
You can do that but ideally you want to avoid those situations,
you want to let the server do it's thing,
so you don't have to worry about nothing.